
# Preface

I obtained the following email archive quite by chance while at a conference in Southern California. I spied among the street litter that familiar forbidden fruit logo etched into a silver casing, which could only belong to a Mac laptop. I carefully walked over to the pile of trash to find an laptop in severe disrepair, apparently discarded by the past owner. I looked around me for an owner, and, when seeing no one who fit the bill, I shoved it into my bag and moved on.

Once back in the office, I found the hard drive still operational, and the email correspondence of its previous owner is what you're about to read.

Like many of you, I've read *The Screwtape Letters* by C.S. Lewis. The senior devil Screwtape's pointed advice to his young and nieve nephew Wormwood opened my mind to the methods the Enemy uses to turn us away from Christ, however slowly or innocuously. As I studied the email archives, I found it fascinating how the Enemy's tactics have changed since Lewis discovered the original letters in the 1940's. Not only are the devils now using email and other forms of communication, but they have developed tactics that would have been an impossibility decades ago. Indeed, the methods employed today make the tools available to Wormwood so long ago seem like children's toys. The human foibles and weaknesses that these methods exploit, however, have not changed and will never change. We will always be prideful, lustful, violent.

I find it satisfying that the devils must navigate the mundane aspects of corporate life the same way we have do; emails, meetings and the like. As you will see, IT support seems to be lacking in the catacomb of Hell that Screwtape and his new pupil, Mugwort, reside in. Perhaps the fact that we and the devils both have to use these technologies illustrates how much control the Evil One actually already has in our world.

B.H. Lindblad
February 09, 2020

