
# Chapter 1

FROM: Screwtape [mailto: screwball@hell.org]    
TO: Mugwort `<muggy_as@hell.org>`    
SUBJECT: RE: New Patient Alert    

Mugwort,

I received the new patient alert you forwarded from corporate. This new patient of yours is a rare fellow, eh? Twenty two years old, raised in the Enemy's church, repentant, etc. By all infernal standards, this one is firmly encamped with our tormenter -- a rare disposition in this age. Difficult tasks like the one facing you are what make legends out of young devils like yourself. The greater the pride, the harder the fall, as a past master once said.

I encourage you to immediately deploy our most highly-developed tool at once: inane and continual distraction. Our science folks have poured billions into the Distractive Arts over the past 40 years. No more will amatuers like yourself have to deal with "thinking" patients, like the one your cousin Wormwood failed many years ago. We have found that once a patient becomes fully addicted to short-term, episodic stimuli, the war is nearly over. In this hypotized state, the patient cannot focus on one thought for much longer than eight seconds, sometimes even half that can be a stretch. 

Prayer, the most insufferable communique that our Enemy continually debases himself with, is all but guaranteed to desist when the patient's thoughts begin to resemble a loose bag of marbles. 

What is his current involvement with his church? Please send me all details of his involvement at once so we can get ahead of that problem quickly. His attachment to a community of "believers" such as himself is the biggest obstacle we face at this point. As you may remember from school, He makes himself present when only a few of them gather, which makes our job hellaciously difficult. But you'll be happy to learn that our devils in Marketing have rendered large swaths of these American churches ineffective and totally void of His presence. Through cutting edge societal pressures and infiltration, many of these groups are actually well within our nest while remaining ignorant to the fact that they are serving the wrong god. Nevertheless, there are still dangerous churches out there that, if left unchecked, can completely surround a patient with an impenetrable fog of Grace that we are powerless against. So beware.

Let me further illustrate how the distraction techniques are applied. From a very young age -- sometimes immediately after birth -- we bombard the humans with our greatest weapon of conversion: screens. Be it television, streaming movies or even video games, all of these screens make our jobs a helluva lot easier. Screens have even displaced music (our leader's favorite) as our most popular medium for placing messages in their silly little heads. Now Mugwort, remember that these mortals have a finite amount of space in their brains, so the more real estate our propaganda can occupy, the less room our enemy has to work with. I should note that the cruft we place in the patient's head need not be officially sanctioned material to be effective. Any content that distracts the human from the Enemy is good content.

At any rate, we begin to distract the kids as early as possible. Their parents can actually be our biggest allies in this since they can plop their kids in front of a screen to gather time for *themselves.* Remember that this isn't a race; we have access to almost all people for countless hours every day for most of their lives to use this trick for our good -- don't rush it, you don't need to.

When the children begin to reach puberty, they become highly susceptible to two kinds of specialized screen attacks: sexual imagery and FOMO, or Fear of Missing Out. Our scientists have discovered that sexual imagery placed in front of these human teenagers during one of the peak hormonal stages can induce lifelong addictions to our most debauched visual media. Find out if your patient fell into that camp when he was younger so we can possibly exploit it further. 

Now FOMO is a relatively new tactic. Not that humans didn't occasionally hear of a social gathering they weren't invited to in olden days, and experienced grief because of it. Far from it. But now, with the new technologies, any human anywhere in the world can be exposed to millions of other people who have it better than them. A teenager can go on social media and see *all* the parties they weren't invited to or an adult can take a virtual tour of a celebritie's mansion (you can almost taste the jealousy!) All of these things are good for us. When we can convince our patients to strive for worldly things entirely, this job becomes almost too easy.

I'll see you at the pot luck next week.

Screwtape | Executive Tempter     
Hell.org


