
# Chapter 2

FROM: Screwtape [mailto: screwball@hell.org]    
TO: Mugwort `<muggy_as@hell.org>`    
SUBJECT: RE:RE: New Patient Alert    


Mugwort,

Your report on the patients screen time is encouraging. There is the one case where these humans knowingly waste their time watching silly cat videos, football games, and other trivial track. But your patient has fairly deceived himself with juicy justifications for the hours he spends on his phone, rather than with his family or communing with the Enemy. Your patient believes that his screen time is *better* than the screen time of his friends because he is consulting his fitness tracking apps to create better health for himself, and he is reading scholarly articles in his spare time on his phone to further his career, which in turn helps him support his family.

Obviously. we need to encourage this behavior at all costs. Whenever your patient creates a distinction between himself and those close to him, he invites the opportunity for our greatest sin to enter his heart: Pride. 

If your patient glances over at someone in the pew and sees them scrolling through a program that he deems *less than*, that's perfect. Not only will the installation of Pride distance him from the Enemy (He really detests it!), the bloody fool doesn't even know that he's deceiving himself. He rationalizes his screen time because he views it as constructive.

You see mugwort, these rationalizations that the humans are so fond of are among the silliest behaviors our Enemy puts up with. Whether your patient detaches himself from his family due to a seemingly positive distraction rather than an Inane distraction, The point is that he is distracted. 

Now, regarding your report on his current church. I say "current" because we need to encourage him to shop around for a new church as often as possible. This church hopping works to our advantage in two ways. First, it transforms our patient's view of the church from a community into a commodity. As you know, these Christians are increasingly hard to reach when they enmesh with one another, forming an impenetrable web of life.

It's much easier for a soldier to pick off another lone soldier in no-man's-land, than it is for one to snipe an entire charging battalion of men. So when we prevent these people from assimilating deeply into one church body, it is easier for you and I to uproot them from the sand.

Next, we can easily pull the wandering sould closer to our breast by confusing him with the different denominations that man has established. If your patient is dissatisfied with his church, more than likely from a personal disagreement with a church member or sermon, you can point his attention to how "all these so-and-so's are all the same," thus producing a mark on the heads of everyone in that church. Therafter, you can truly confuse the man on his theology by instigating this pettiness towards these churches. Eventually, he will run out of denominations to alienate himself from and will have no other choice but to come into our arms!

It doesn't always work that smooth, but you get the picture. Remind me to tell you about how we further confuse the humans with the translations of their Bible.

Back to his current church. I pinged human resources and found the tempter working on his current pastor. Now, although I just told you to have your man shop around, I think we need to keep him where he is for now, as I see some opportunities on the horizon.

This other tempter has put in a solid decade on this pastor and it appears to be paying off. Recall my previous letter expounding on the utmost importance of screentime. This pastor is no stranger to it, and the fellow spends much of his time watching sermons by what he views as "big time" preachers -- the one's we're so fond of. These pastors don't become big time in the World by preaching the Truth about us or our Enemy; far from it. Our fellow's pastor has been slowly integrating the theology of these prosperity teachers into his own lessons; probably without awareness.

Less teaching on repentence an our Enemy, and more talk of *self*. This vein of teaching is obviously straight from our playbook, so keep him at his church for now, Stalin willing.

Talk soon,

Screwtape | Executive Tempter     
Hell.org


