# Chapter 3

FROM: Screwtape [mailto: screwball@hell.org]    
TO: Mugwort `<muggy_as@hell.org>`    
SUBJECT: RE:RE: xxxxxxxxxxxxx

Since the college faculty, in their infinite evil, seemingly cannot teach you anything useful, I'll do their job for them. 

You asked about suggesting your patient try out another religion entirely distinct from his current one. At first glance, this may appear to be a valid tack, but in this case, it would be a waste of your time. In decaded past, before the people of the world were connected by our screens and the internet, a young girl in Kansas hadn't the foggiest idea what a girl in China worshipped, or what holy book a boy in Africa would regard. So when this Kansas girl grew up and went to college, she had context at all when introduced to buddhism by some girl she meets in chemistry class. With no preconceived notions on what buddhism is, it was entirely possible for a tempter to suggest that her parents and pastor had "kept her in the dark" about this "true" religion.

In addition, the only source of information she would have about buddhism would be her friend's words and maybe an article in a dusty encyclopedia. You see, the internet has both helped and hurt us as tempters. These cases of naive-turned-convert are increasingly rare, but not unheard-of.

Your patient is a product of the internet age. He has been told of the other religions his entire life, especially by his pastor. In his puny little mind, buddhism already equates to *us*.  Now I'll tell you what you should do instead.

The trick is to get your patient *comfortable*. Get him cozy, get him lacksadaisacal, get him happy with his place in the world, and happy in his relationship to our Enemy. You must at all costs, keep him from reading Paul's warning to him; convince him it's OK to be static in his relationship to the Enemy. Remind him that he went to Sunday school, was baptized, that he randomly thows a five dollar bill in the offering -- he's checking all the boxes he's required to. At least, all the boxes he sees his friends checking.

While it may seem like you're batting for the other team for years by doing this, it willpay off. As we've discussed, we have a whole division that's been making great progress on the pastors in this country. Sooner or later, your cozy patient's pastor may turn to us (and there has been good evidence that he's headed that way.) As long as your patient is kept comfy, he'll turn as well.

Why rock the boat? So what if there is less and less Jesus and more and more "community" in the weekly sermon? Wouldn't Jesus encourage that? Before he knows it, there will be no Jesus, and he's slid down into our morass.

If your cozy Christian continues down this path we're trotting him down, we can eventually turn him completely, and here's why. These "mere" concessions the patient makes for his faith have an additive effect. By this I mean that each concession he makes builds on the previous, and each sucessive concession becomes easier than the last to take.

We exploit a defect that the Enemy carelessly left in the humans when he designed them. You see, when a human rises in the morning their minds reset to a degree. Since we spirits cannot sleep, it's hard to imagine what it's like, but apparently it's a glorious thing that the Enemy ruthlessly held back from us. The human has a certain amount of willpower to use up throughout the day. Each task consumes a certain amount of willpower, and willpower is sapped when a human does something selfish, over eats, or skips a workout. After the human does something like this, willpower leaks out and the rest of the human's day snowballs with more selfishness, until he recharges the next night (damn that sleep!)

The human spends his life in the same manner that he spends his day (a fractal property...keep your patient away from mathematics at all costs!). You can exploit this by making small cuts into your patient's faith, if you've kept him comfy long enough. If he doesn't speak up when his church slowly turns away from the Enemy, he will be much more susceptible to our tactics: first he skips church occassionally, then he starts to harbor contempt for those that go when he doesn't. then he stops going all together. Before long he's snowballed into a loyal warlock!

I think you should adjust your strategy accordingly, and adopt this more gradual strategy. After all, humans are living longer, and the longer they live, the more time we have to work on them.

Screwtape | Executive Tempter     
Hell.org

