
# Chapter 5

FROM: Screwtape [mailto: screwball@hell.org]    
TO: Mugwort `<muggy_as@hell.org>`    
SUBJECT: Something for you to try...

Dear Mugwort,

I see that you've been able to keep your human in a state of despair for some time now. Excellent! I'm proud of you. In fact, I brought you up in a meeting at corporate last week. We were discussing additions to our young professionals networking program, and I touted you, Mugwort, as a worthy addition to the group. It's a great program for building your career -- and a fast track to a lower management role. Would you rather spend eternity whispering, suggesting, begging these filthy creatures to sink down into our miry pit, or would you rather call the shots at corporate with me? strategizing and building the future of the Underworld? Down here, my scaly apprentice, the muck is always blacker.

 I've come across some research that points to more opportunities opening up for us on earth. One of our greatest ancillary weapons since VG Day (Victory in the Garden) has been *pharmakeia*, the cutting of roots -- drugs as the humans say. Recently, the humans have went from demonizing psychedelics -- our most useful drug -- to praising it; even referring to it as *medicine*. Hahaha.

You may rightly wonder why the humans have changed their tune on something they have universally shunned for so long. It started after the second great war when science was  largely compromised on earth. As soon as the military funnelled untold millions into the university system to support the war, science was no longer Newton, or Pastuer, or Pascal, it was a commodity; bought and sold like politicians. Science and scientists had a taste of the wine, the sturporous drunkenness, and their eyes were filled with purple and scarlet. 

Since then, we've been able to bribe the researchers and scientists to find some positive uses for these drugs to treat certain ailments, like anxiety and depression. This provides a peek through the window shades to one of our underlying strategies that has been so effective, which is of course to introduce a barb such as LSD or DMT or marijuana in a way that the negative effects are initially ignored in favor of the positive effects. *This marijuana will help my nausea, so what if I get a little paranoid?* The beauty of a barbed tool such a this is that it slides in easily, but the nasty stuff stays with the patient long after they try to pry it out. 

Your patient is young, he thinks himself smart. He is part of the crowd who looks down his nose at prescription medication, which he sees as part of the corporate machine designed to poison him. This is why I think he'll be likely to try something like pot if a friend offers it. I mean, hell, it's legal in half the country now, maybe all you need to do is wait for a road trip with his buddies and use the old peer pressure tricks.

However you do it, make it seem like an "organic" experience; marijuana grows in nature, so how could it be bad? It's been used for 1000's of years in indigenous cultures; it's the wicked Victorian Europeans  and American Puritans who wanted to hide the truth from the masses! His own God even said that he has been given "every plant for food?" 

These lukewarm Christians can't be tempted into trying these things in the same way as the others, who still fall for the original trick: that their "eyes will be opened" so that they'll be like the Enemy. But remember that your young patient *has a choice*. He has to choose these things, choose to disobey the Enemy in order to choose us. And when he hears the stories of healing from these drugs in hip ceremonies in South America or down the street, he'll make the right choice. We've already grabbed most of the internet celebrities your patient looks up to. As soon as he hears that podcaster so-and-so had his life changed by a "religuos experience" with a shaman, it will be hard for him to resist. He's young and niaive enough to not be able to discern the difference between experiencing our nauseating Enemy firsthand and experiencing you and I,and by the time he finds out, it will be too late for him anyway. 

When and if you are able to get this hook into the lad, a few things will happen. First, you will have *direct access* to him. No longer will you be forced to whisper so subtly to him, you can have a conversation with him and control parts of his senses almost directly. With marijuana, that direct connection is a little unstable, compared to the high speed connection we enjoy with some of the stronger drugs. There exists a small handful of these that allow us almost unlimited control of the lucky patient for a few minutes at a time. A few minutes might seem like a trifle, but in those few minutes he's in *our world*, where time is ours to meld how we see fit. While he's in this state we can see his entire past, therefore it is easy for us to dig up some relevant nugget of repressed memory, spin it around a bit, and make it seem like the patient had a "breakthrough" -- a good word to get him used to, by the way. 

The other thing is that you can have a bit of fun with him. Scare him, find his greatest fear and make him experience it over and over again. Give him a taste of what death is like. Once he steps through that portal, the laws of time and space don't apply in that space you share with him. Some veteran tempters view this as their version of school recess that they enjoyed as young spirits. Live a little, Mugwort!

But wait, there's more! Numerous secondary effects can also work to our advantage.

First of all, many of these drugs will make your man plain lazy -- sloth. Let him spend his life laying around and you'll be sure to make his displease the enemy. Next, you can fill him with incredible amounts of fear as he drifts from his world into ours. Of course, try not to make him afraid the first few times; get him hooked before the sugar turns to vingar. 

You may be happy to learn that humans share a most miserable trait with us: that inability to be satisfied (after you win your first soul, you'll know what I'm talking about.) If you give them x amount of a drug, they will eventually need x + 1 to get the same level of arousal, and then x + 2, and so on. This is a beauty because they will never be satisfied with anything on this earth. As they try to chase the elusive high that first hooked them, they become more and more focused on *self*. The more they focus inward, the easier our job becomes. The worship of *self* is the same as the worship of our Great Father Below. 

Get him to try it, Mugwort, and you'll be well on your way.

