-   [Preface](#preface)
-   [Chapter 1](#chapter-1)
-   [Chapter 2](#chapter-2)
-   [Chapter 5](#chapter-5)

Preface
=======

I obtained the following email archive quite by chance while at a
conference in Southern California. I spied among the street litter that
familiar forbidden fruit logo etched into a silver casing, which could
only belong to a Mac laptop. I carefully walked over to the pile of
trash to find an laptop in severe disrepair, apparently discarded by the
past owner. I looked around me for an owner, and, when seeing no one who
fit the bill, I shoved it into my bag and moved on.

Once back in the office, I found the hard drive still operational, and
the email correspondence of its previous owner is what you're about to
read.

Like many of you, I've read *The Screwtape Letters* by C.S. Lewis. The
senior devil Screwtape's pointed advice to his young and nieve nephew
Wormwood opened my mind to the methods the Enemy uses to turn us away
from Christ, however slowly or innocuously. As I studied the email
archives, I found it fascinating how the Enemy's tactics have changed
since Lewis discovered the original letters in the 1940's. Not only are
the devils now using email and other forms of communication, but they
have developed tactics that would have been an impossibility decades
ago. Indeed, the methods employed today make the tools available to
Wormwood so long ago seem like children's toys. The human foibles and
weaknesses that these methods exploit, however, have not changed and
will never change. We will always be prideful, lustful, violent.

I find it satisfying that the devils must navigate the mundane aspects
of corporate life the same way we have do; emails, meetings and the
like. As you will see, IT support seems to be lacking in the catacomb of
Hell that Screwtape and his new pupil, Mugwort, reside in. Perhaps the
fact that we and the devils both have to use these technologies
illustrates how much control the Evil One actually already has in our
world.

B.H. Lindblad February 09, 2020

Chapter 1
=========

FROM: Screwtape \[mailto: screwball@hell.org\]\
TO: Mugwort `<muggy_as@hell.org>`\
SUBJECT: RE: New Patient Alert

Mugwort,

I received the new patient alert you forwarded from corporate. This new
patient of yours is a rare fellow, eh? Twenty two years old, raised in
the Enemy's church, repentant, etc. By all infernal standards, this one
is firmly encamped with our tormenter -- a rare disposition in this age.
Difficult tasks like the one facing you are what make legends out of
young devils like yourself. The greater the pride, the harder the fall,
as a past master once said.

I encourage you to immediately deploy our most highly-developed tool at
once: inane and continual distraction. Our science folks have poured
billions into the Distractive Arts over the past 40 years. No more will
amatuers like yourself have to deal with "thinking" patients, like the
one your cousin Wormwood failed many years ago. We have found that once
a patient becomes fully addicted to short-term, episodic stimuli, the
war is nearly over. In this hypotized state, the patient cannot focus on
one thought for much longer than eight seconds, sometimes even half that
can be a stretch.

Prayer, the most insufferable communique that our Enemy continually
debases himself with, is all but guaranteed to desist when the patient's
thoughts begin to resemble a loose bag of marbles.

What is his current involvement with his church? Please send me all
details of his involvement at once so we can get ahead of that problem
quickly. His attachment to a community of "believers" such as himself is
the biggest obstacle we face at this point. As you may remember from
school, He makes himself present when only a few of them gather, which
makes our job hellaciously difficult. But you'll be happy to learn that
our devils in Marketing have rendered large swaths of these American
churches ineffective and totally void of His presence. Through cutting
edge societal pressures and infiltration, many of these groups are
actually well within our nest while remaining ignorant to the fact that
they are serving the wrong god. Nevertheless, there are still dangerous
churches out there that, if left unchecked, can completely surround a
patient with an impenetrable fog of Grace that we are powerless against.
So beware.

Let me further illustrate how the distraction techniques are applied.
From a very young age -- sometimes immediately after birth -- we bombard
the humans with our greatest weapon of conversion: screens. Be it
television, streaming movies or even video games, all of these screens
make our jobs a helluva lot easier. Screens have even displaced music
(our leader's favorite) as our most popular medium for placing messages
in their silly little heads. Now Mugwort, remember that these mortals
have a finite amount of space in their brains, so the more real estate
our propaganda can occupy, the less room our enemy has to work with. I
should note that the cruft we place in the patient's head need not be
officially sanctioned material to be effective. Any content that
distracts the human from the Enemy is good content.

At any rate, we begin to distract the kids as early as possible. Their
parents can actually be our biggest allies in this since they can plop
their kids in front of a screen to gather time for *themselves.*
Remember that this isn't a race; we have access to almost all people for
countless hours every day for most of their lives to use this trick for
our good -- don't rush it, you don't need to.

When the children begin to reach puberty, they become highly susceptible
to two kinds of specialized screen attacks: sexual imagery and FOMO, or
Fear of Missing Out. Our scientists have discovered that sexual imagery
placed in front of these human teenagers during one of the peak hormonal
stages can induce lifelong addictions to our most debauched visual
media. Find out if your patient fell into that camp when he was younger
so we can possibly exploit it further.

Now FOMO is a relatively new tactic. Not that humans didn't occasionally
hear of a social gathering they weren't invited to in olden days, and
experienced grief because of it. Far from it. But now, with the new
technologies, any human anywhere in the world can be exposed to millions
of other people who have it better than them. A teenager can go on
social media and see *all* the parties they weren't invited to or an
adult can take a virtual tour of a celebritie's mansion (you can almost
taste the jealousy!) All of these things are good for us. When we can
convince our patients to strive for worldly things entirely, this job
becomes almost too easy.

I'll see you at the pot luck next week.

Screwtape | Executive Tempter\
Hell.org

Chapter 2
=========

FROM: Screwtape \[mailto: screwball@hell.org\]\
TO: Mugwort `<muggy_as@hell.org>`\
SUBJECT: RE:RE: New Patient Alert

Mugwort,

Your report on the patients screen time is encouraging. There is the one
case where these humans knowingly waste their time watching silly cat
videos, football games, and other trivial track. But your patient has
fairly deceived himself with juicy justifications for the hours he
spends on his phone, rather than with his family or communing with the
Enemy. Your patient believes that his screen time is *better* than the
screen time of his friends because he is consulting his fitness tracking
apps to create better health for himself, and he is reading scholarly
articles in his spare time on his phone to further his career, which in
turn helps him support his family.

You see mugwort, these rationalizations that the humans are so fond of
are among the silliest behaviors our enemy puts up with. Whether your
patient detaches himself from his family due to a seemingly positive
distraction rather than an Inane distraction, The point is that he is
distracted.

A secondary benefit of the patients constant smart phone research is the
gradual breakdown of his own reason. Instead of logically thinking from
first principles, the patient read articles written by people that have
regurgitated ideas written by people that have heard ideas from our
souls in our university systems. It really is a game of telephone Afton
originating from our very own talking points.

All of this is to say that you must create an inseparable bond between
the patient and his phone and any other similar devices.

I’m very pleased to hear your description of the flaccid church he’s
been attending lately.One of our boys has been working on that churches
lead pastor for more than a decade, And it’s evident that he’s had a
breakthrough. one way we measure this is by Counting the times a pastor

This, my friend, is how we do it. We go over there, and get it.

Screwtape | Executive Tempter\
Hell.org

Chapter 5
=========

FROM: Screwtape \[mailto: screwball@hell.org\]\
TO: Mugwort `<muggy_as@hell.org>`\
SUBJECT: Something for you to try...

Dear Mugwort,

I see that you've been able to keep your human in a state of despair for
some time now. Excellent! I'm proud of you. In fact, I brought you up in
a meeting at corporate last week. We were discussing additions to our
young professionals networking program, and I touted you, Mugwort, as a
worthy addition to the group. It's a great program for building your
career -- and a fast track to an lower management role. Would you rather
spend eternity whispering, suggesting, begging these filthy creatures to
sink down into our miry pit, or would you rather call the shots at
corporate with me? strategizing and building the future of the
Underworld? Down here, my scaly apprentice, the muck is always blacker.

Now I've come across some research that points to more opportunities
opening up for us on earth. One of our greatest ancillary weapons since
VG Day (Victory in the Garden) has been *pharmakeia*, the cutting of
roots -- drugs as the humans say. Recently, the humans have went from
demonizing (ha) psychedelics -- our most useful drug -- to praising it;
even referring to it as *medicine*.

You see, ever since the second great war, science has been largely
compromised on earth. As soon as the military funnelled untold millions
into the university system to support the war, science was no longer
Newton, or Pastuer, or Pascal, it was bought -- a commodity if you will.
Science had a taste of the wine, the sturporous drunkenness, and her
eyes were filled with purple and scarlet.

As such, we've been able to bribe the researchers and scientists to find
some positive uses for these drugs to treat certain ailments, like
anxiety and depression. This provides a peek through the window shades
to one of our underlying strategies that has been so effective, which is
of course to introduce a barb such as LSD or DMT or marijuana in a way
that the negative effects are almost ignored in favor of the positive
effects. *This marijuana will help my nausea, so what if I get a little
paranoid?* The beauty of a barbed tool such a this is that it slides in
easily, but is nearly impossible to pull out.

Your patient is young, he thinks himself smart. He is part of the crowd
who looks down his nose at prescription medication, which he sees as
part of the corporate machine designed to poison him. This is why I
think he'll be likely to try something like pot if a friend offers it. I
mean, hell, it's legal in half the country now, maybe all you need to do
is to get him on a road trip with his buddies? However you do it, make
it seem like an "organic" experience; marijuana grows in nature, so how
could it be bad? His own God even said that he has been given "every
plant for food?" These lukewarm Christians can't be tempted into trying
these things in the same way as the others, who still fall for the
original trick: that their "eyes will be opened" so that they'll be like
the Enemy.

When and if you are able to get this hook into the lad, a few things
will happen. First, you will have *direct access* to him. No longer will
you be forced to whisper so subtly to him, you can have a conversation
with him and control parts of his senses almost directly. With
marijuana, that direct connection is a little unstable, compared to the
high speed internet that we can ride on with some of the stronger drugs.
There exists a small handful of drugs that allow us almost unlimited
control of the lucky patient for a few minutes at a time. A few minutes
might seem like a trifle, but in those few minutes he's in *our world*,
where time is ours to meld how we see fit.

But nevertheless, I don't need to explain to you why this is such a
great tactic. We practically overran America in the 1960's when these
things came into the mainstream, but at that time there was still a
stigma, which would have prevented your patient, if he lived then, from
indulging. With the help of one type of drug, we conquered Europe in the
1940's, and used that Austrian saint as our lever. Indeed, this tactic
will make you feel like Archimedes once you see how well it works! An
extremely popular podcaster in America has been a great advocate for
these drugs as of late. He's one of the leading voices that young men
*really* listen to, so of course we had our top demons on him like stink
on pigs. When we can influence these celebrities our reach can be
compounded a thousand-fold.

In addition to the first rate access to patient that you'll be able to
gain with these substances coursing through your patient's veins,
numerous secondary effects can also work to our advantage.

First of all, many of these drugs will make your man plain lazy --
sloth. Let him spend his life laying around and you'll be sure to make
his displease the enemy. Next, you can fill him with incredible amounts
of fear as he drifts from his world into ours. Of course, try not to
make him afraid the first few times; get him hooked before the sugar
turns to vingar.

You may be happy to learn that humans share a most miserable trait with
us: that inability to be satisfied (after you win your first soul,
you'll know what I'm talking about.) If you give them x amount of a
drug, they will eventually need x + 1 to get the same level of arousal,
and then x + 2, and so on. This is a beauty because they will never be
satisfied with anything on this earth. As they try to chase the elusive
high that first hooked them, they become more and more focused on
*self*. The more they focus inward, the easier our job becomes. The
worship of *self* is the same as the worship of our Great Father Below.

Get him here, Mugwort, and you'll be well on your way.
